{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13580\viewh17820\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 .NET\
\
Microsoft IIS has to be installed first\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Installing Microsoft IIS
\f1\b0 \
\
In Windows XP Professional click Start > Settings > Control Panel. Then click Add or Remove Programs. Click Add/Remove Windows Components and choose Internet Information Services (IIS) and click Next and follow instructions.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Installing .NET\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Go to the address
\f1\b0 \
\
http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/vwd/download/\
\
Before installing, you must uninstall any previous Beta, CTP or Tech Preview versions of SQL Server 2005, Visual Studio 2005, and the .NET Framework 2.0.\
\
Click the Download-link. Download the file named vwdsetup.exe.\
\
Double-click the downloaded file and choose to install both Microsoft Visual Web Developer 2005 Express Edition and SQL Server Express.\
\

\f0\b Copy files to right locations:
\f1\b0 \
\
Copy "v2" (version 2 Helmi Technologies development) directory including the "demos" and "src" directories to c:
\fs26 \\v2\\\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 Unzip the "mp3bak.zip" including the demo mp3 files to c:
\fs26 \\mp3s\\
\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Create virtual directories:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Click Start > Settings > Control Panel. Then click Administrative Tools. Click Internet Information Tools. Open the <your_computer>(local computer) plus mark. Open the Web Sites plus mark and also the Default Web Site plus mark.\
\
Right click Default Web Site and choose New > Virtual Directory... from the menu. Click Next. Write the name "dotnet_transporter" to the Alias textfield. Click Next and Browse... . Choose c:\\v2\\demos\\dot_transporter\\ and click OK. Click Next and leave the settings as is they are. Click Next and Finish.\
\
Create also another Virtual Directory "v2" in the Alias textfield and choose c:\\v2\\ in the Directory.\
\

\f0\b Configure security settings:
\f1\b0 \
\
In the Internet Information Services window right click the dotnet_transporter and choose Properties. Choose the ASP.NET tab and click the Edit Configuration... . Choose the Application tab and check the Local inpersonation and white your user name and password in the User name and Password textfields. Click OK.\
\
In the dotnet_transporter Properties window choose the Directory Security and click the Edit... . Check the Intergrated Windows Authentication and choose the OK.\
\
\

\f0\b Now you area ready to go!\

\f1\b0 \
Open your favorite browser and choose:\
\
http://localhost/v2/demos/helmijukebox/index.html}